Let's go over the GitHub repositories first.
This is the Kubernetes code repository where we have our application code and Docker file.
Our application code is API.
It is a very simple Python program which is importing the library flask and just returning.
Hello Docker.
The file requirements text lists the external library flask and in this case we are specifically using
the version 1.1.1 the Docker file.
Docker eases that Python program and creates a container image.
It is using the best Python 3.8 Docker image and then it's copying over the requirement file running
a pip install of the flask.
Then it is running the Python program, accepting incoming connections.
Now let's go over the Jenkins file.
So this Jenkins file is for the job, which is creating the Docker container image.
So the first stage it clones this repository into the Jenkins environment and then it builds the Docker
container image.
So basically it looks for a Docker file in the repository that it just cloned and then runs that Docker
file.
This large 80 Docker ID is the account ID in my Docker hub repository and test is the repository name.
If I go to my Docker hub, you can see this repository is currently empty.
This step does not push the container image yet the next edge is just a dummy placeholder.
So in this step you can run some unit testing.
In the next stage is where I push the image to Docker Hub.
So you give the Earl of the Docker Hub the next part, Docker Hub is not a standard keyword.
Jenkins Jobs will go to the saved credential and grab the credentials saved under ID Docker Hub and
use that user ID and password to push this container image.
So if I switch to my Jenkins, you can see under credentials I have this ID Docker hub and I have my
Docker hub, user ID and password saved under here.
We will go over this when we set up our Jenkins environment and we push this container image with the
tag of build number of this job.
So as you keep pushing more code changes that these Jenkins jobs will keep resubmitting itself with
the new build number and that will be used as the tag for the new container images.
Note that this EMV dot build underscore number is a standard variable and that is available readily
in any Jenkins job.
You don't need to define this variable anywhere, and in the last stage we trigger another Jenkins job
to update the deployment file and the name of this job is Update Manifest and we are updating the deployment
file with the build number from this job.
So we have to pass this bill number and we are passing that bill number into a parameter called Docker
tag to this job and update manifest job will use this Docker tag parameter to update the deployment
file.
We are going to see that in a minute.
This is the Kubernetes manifest repository.
So this repository has the deployment file and Jenkins file for the Jenkins job to update the deployment.
So if we go to the deployment YAML, the container image is referencing to the latest tag.
It doesn't matter because if I go to my Docker hub, this repository is empty.
First time we run our Jenkins job, it is going to update this tag and in the next step we are creating
a load balancer service to talk to the container by default.
Flask application runs on the target port 5000 in the container.
So that's why the URL of the load balancer will be using port eight for you.
But it is redirecting the traffic to the port 5000 of the container.
I have opened the Jenkins file for updating the deployment file on the right with the deployment demo
on the left.
So the first step is very similar.
It clones this repository in the Jenkins environment and the second stage it updates the file, so it
sets the git config user, user email and user name for the commit history.
And then I'm running a cat deployment of HTML to show you how it is before we change and then we run
this SED command to change this container image.
This seed command is using the symbol plus as the delimiter because we cannot use the default front
slash because our container image has from slash.
So said don't work.
So said dash I dash I means it is going to do in place replace in the file itself instead of creating
a new file.
And then I'm looking for the line which has raj large 80 docker id slash test dot asterisks mean anything
afterwards in the line is fine and I'm replacing that with Roger T Docker IDs last test colon.
Hour tag.
Remember, Doctor Tag is the parameter that this Jenkins job will accept as an input from the other
Jenkins job.
And I'm doing this change on the deployment YAML file and then I'm displaying the deployment file again
to show you.
And then I'm running git add and git commit and get push.
So now let's go over the first line.
In the first line.
Note that this credential ID GitHub is fetching the credentials saved under the ID GitHub from the Jenkins
credentials.
If I switch to my Jenkins, you will see the ID GitHub has my GitHub credentials.
Remember that the password of the GitHub should be your token and not the password.
So we'll go over it when we set up Jenkins and after it features that username and password, it runs
the git push command for this Kubernetes manifest repo and updates the deployment file.
All right, so now let's jump into Jenkins and set up the jobs.